# Master degree diploma project.
## Subject: Development of a method for assessing lawn condition based on computer vision

Abstract: The article is devoted to automating the process of lawn condition assessment during the annual assessment of the ecological condition of urban green spaces. The current approach in accordance with the Methodology for assessing the ecological condition of green spaces in St. Petersburg has several significant problems: labor-intensive (inefficient use of resources of landscaping specialists) and dependence on the subjective opinion of individual specialists. The method allows not only automating the current assessment process, but also switching from subjective assessment of lawn condition criteria by a specialist to a different assessment format through lawn condition artefacts (plant species, trampling and others) without complicating the assessment process itself. In the proposed approach, the specialist's resources are spent on making decisions based on the recommendations received, as well as on spot-checking the method's results with the specialist's expertise. Thus, there is a saving and simultaneous transformation of the specialist's resources. The proposed method consists in simultaneous use of YOLOv8 neural network for detection of lawn condition artefacts on images taken by quadcopter at a height of 3-5 meters, as well as contextual data on geo-position (surrounding buildings and street-road network, zone according to land use and development rules). To develop the method, the training dataset was partitioned and the method was validated with visualization of the model accuracy parameters. The factors affecting the recognition quality as well as the development possibilities of the proposed method are described. A database of condition artefacts was created, based on which the growing conditions of the lawn and a set of recommendations for improving its condition are identified. For the effective use of the method during the ecological assessment of green spaces, the necessary innovations in the legislative framework were described, as well as a responsibility matrix was developed, delimiting the responsibilities of the method and the specialist. The method generates a list of recognized lawn condition artefacts with coordinates and a set of recommendations, using which the specialist determines the scope and types of improvement works to be carried out at various green areas.
